Add Best Practice - Don't put source in root project (#33493)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/best_practices_general.adoc

=== Tags

<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:upgrades,`#upgrades`>>

[[no_source_in_root]]

> == Do Not Put Source Files in the Root Project

Reviewer: I feel like this is not just about sources, in general, you should avoid applying any plugins to the root project, including Java plugin. Should we broaden to that?

:keywords: structuring-builds

> Do not put source files in your root project; instead, put them in an included (sub)project.

Reviewer: (sub)project parentheses seem unnecessary. Can we just use subproject or sub-project?

Author: Yeah, I was trying to be too fancy here.  I'll change this to consistently say just "projects".

=== Explanation

The root project is a special project in Gradle that serves as the entry point for your build.

It is the place to configure settings that apply globally to the entire build.
For example, you can declare (but not apply) plugins here to ensure the same plugin version is consistently available across all projects and define other configurations shared by all projects within the build.

It should not be used for source files, instead they should be located in a separate (sub)project.

> 

Reviewer: Do we want to call out that using subproject also makes it easier to add new projects in the future as the whole project doesn't need to be restructured?

=== Tags

<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:upgrades,`#upgrades`>>

[[no_source_in_root]]
== Do Not Put Source Files in the Root Project
:keywords: structuring-builds

Do not put source files in your root project; instead, put them in an included (sub)project.

=== Explanation

The root project is a special project in Gradle that serves as the entry point for your build.

> It is a place to configure the build as a whole, such as declaring (but not applying) plugins to ensure the same version is available in every project in a build, and to do other types of configuration that apply to all the build's projects.

Reviewer 2: This one is a long sentence. I would like to break it down:
```suggestion
It is the place to configure settings that apply globally to the entire build. 
For example, you can declare (but not apply) plugins here to ensure the same plugin version is consistently available across all projects and define other configurations shared by all projects within the build.
```

It should not be used for source files, instead they should be located in a separate (sub)project.

=== Example

==== Don't Do This

[.multi-language-sample]
=====
.A common way to structure new builds
[source, kotlin]
----
├── app

> ├── build.gradle.kts

Reviewer 2: Should we note this as optional or remove it?

Author: A buildscript is necessary to apply the `java-library` plugin in this project.  I'll add a comment.  

I also notice that `/app` is in the tree is a result of a manual editing mistake that I'll fix now.

=== Tags

<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:upgrades,`#upgrades`>>

[[no_source_in_root]]
== Do Not Put Source Files in the Root Project
:keywords: structuring-builds

Do not put source files in your root project; instead, put them in a separate project.

=== Explanation

The root project is a special project in Gradle that serves as the entry point for your build.

> It is the place to configure settings that apply globally to the entire build.

Reviewer 3: How does it align with isolated projects/convention plugins?

And from beginner view: what's the difference to a settings.build file?

Author: This design pattern should work fine with IP or convention plugins.

I think your second point has some merit.  Most settings are meant to go in `settings.gradle`.  I'll will add a sentence and link to docs clarifying this.
